>> Evan: Let's take a look at
how we can make this happen.
Think the obvious thing is we need to
create a Vue instance somewhere and
we can directly pass el into it
because yeah, that's the same thing.
And then model obvious should
be passing to the data
>> Evan: So let's make it reactive.
>> Evan: And then view,
so view is a function.
View is a function that
takes three arguments.
And because view is essentially
the render function,
what we need to do is call it
inside our render function.
So we are essentially returning the view
that's generated for our review function.
And the first argument is obviously the h.
And the second argument is model.
So we can,
because model is made reactive here we can
actually directly pass
it in if you want to.
>> Evan: And really, the last question is,
how do we create this actions thing,
right?
Directly passing actions
probably does not work, right?
Because if you pass it here.
When you pass the click,
this will be called with, the as
the argument is that of what you expect
here which is our model essentially.
And we also need to collect the return
value from these actions in order
to somehow trigger state updates.
So it's pretty, so we realize
that we cannot just directly pass
the same actions object
into our view function.
Instead we need to maybe,
like wrappedactions or something.
And this wrappedactions will
contain the same tease,
as the original actions object, but
the implementation will be different.
So what we can do is
>> Evan: Let's
make wrappedactions an object.
>> Evan: And then we iterate through
the incoming, the source actions.
>> Evan: All right?
In wrapped actions, K equals something.
So now we can think about how
they are expected to work.
They should receive the current state.
So they should be, wait,
wait, wait, sorry.
wrappedactions, let's just
make it s function first.
Think about what you do later.
And these arguments.
So this argument is actually what
we receive from the click event.
So for us that's really not useful so
we can just ignore it.
What we care more about is
that this function is called.
And we will probably want to save
the original action somewhere.
>> Evan: So
when the wrapped action is invoked,
obviously it should call
the original action.
And our original action inspects
the model, so we pass the model to it.
And the original action returns the next
model
>> Evan: Right?
Now comes the interesting part.
How do we take the next model and
somehow make our state
reflect what's going on?
>> Evan: So what we can do is
>> Evan: In
fact I think we should probably do
something like this down model like this.
>> Evan: Const app,
well let's call it a vm, okay.
And we want to reference
the latest model here.
And vm.model = nextModel.
So this could probably work.
I believe this is slightly different
from our reference implementation.
But just for the sake of it,
we should probably
give it a shot,
see if there are any errors, no errors.
And yeah, it works, so we've successfully
satisfied the API requirements
that we see in the exercise.
So let's recap.
The first thing we're doing is, so the
thought process is actually in reverse.
We first started thinking about
the top level requirement is we need to
create a view instance and mount it to l.
This view instance should take
the incoming model and make it reactive.
And then inside this instance,
this render function,
it'll invoke the view function and
pass it to the necessary arguments.
Which is the h, the model, and actions.
Then we realize the incoming raw actions
will not satisfy our requirements.
And we somehow need to essentially
map the original actions to
a another version of it to
satisfy the API requirement.
So we create another clone object, and
then essentially create
these mapped functions.
And inside these mapped actions
we will call the original action,
feed it the current model to
retrieve the next model, and
then we replace the current
model with the next model.
>> Evan: So as you can see, internally
this is still sort of mutating stuff.
But what we expose to the external
is purely functional.
In fact, you can see that this whole app
doesn’t contain any mutation in any place.
Everything is just functions,
arguments in, arguments out.
And the point of this
exercise is really so
show that despite
the superficial difference.
So when we talk about going for a more
functional style or a more whatever style.
It's more important to understand
the online connections between different
paradigms.
Similar to JSX versus templates or
functional versus non-functional.
I believe the most important thing
is to understand what problems
are they trying to solve.
Instead of just sticking to one thing and
believing it's better than the other.
So who's early, he worked on early on.
He recently had a Tweet,
which I like a lot.
He says the things that you like
probably not as good as you think.
The things that you hate are probably
not as bad as you think.
So I think it's important to always
keep an open mind when you see
confronting paradigms and try to.
It's always worthwhile to
explore the other side,
to understand the benefits of both.
That'll help you,
even if you don't switch that'll help you
understand the underlying problem better.